Welcome to Baria Temple International Church's Podcast.
I am your host Timothy, and we're here together on this beautiful day to hear from God.
So let's all prepare ourselves to receive what God has in store for us today.
Let's begin.
So again, we're gonna continue on.
We have just a couple of more
today and the following Sunday after next.
In our series, we are, that is our series, our theme for the whole year.
And more specifically, we are assemblies of God.
We are an A.G. church that is a Bible believing, holiness following Christ's loving church.
And as such, we are
church members.
We are part of the body of Christ that Jesus planted, that the Lord, the Father, the Holy Spirit planted at this corner in 1949.
And there is a body that is to be raised up from this location.
And we have been going through what it is to be part of the body.
We call that being a church member.
What does it mean to be a church member?
And we have looked at many different aspects and things, but today specifically, we are gonna look at, I will lead my family to be a healthy church member.
There are a story of three pastors that had gathered for coffee and shared their bat infestation problem.
I thank the Lord that this particular church doesn't have that, but we do have bats in the general vicinity.
The first pastor said, I took a shotgun and I fired at them.
It made holes in the ceiling, but it didn't really do anything for the bat problem.
The second said, I tried trapping them alive and I drove 50 miles before releasing them, but they beat me back to the church.
So it didn't solve anything.
Then the third pastor pipes up and he says,
I haven't had any more bat problems.
I baptized them and let them join the church and I haven't seen them since.
That dealt with the bat problem.
This is a cute little story.
It's silly, but it highlights a pattern that's often seen in church members.
A lot of people get excited about church.
We have a new believer and they come down to the altar and I can guarantee you, if I were a betting man, I am not, I would guarantee you that there have been dozens, if not hundreds, who have put their faces on these wood and altars and accepted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior.
And then they stood up from there and they were excited.
The Bible uses the word zealous.
They were zealous for the things of God.
They wanted to be in Sunday school.
They wanted to teach kids.
They wanted to be on the prayer team.
They wanted to be a bus captain.
They wanted to serve at communion time.
They were excited.
They couldn't wait to get home and tell their family what happened to them.
Only for about six months to a year to find themselves sitting where you are.
disenfranchised because of X-wires.
It doesn't really matter.
It's kind of like when somebody like me, I'm in shape, rounds of shape, don't laugh, goes to the gym and gets upset because all you ever see is fat people.
Well, who's the gym for?
And you get mad and you're like, I'm never going back to that gym.
Full of hypocrites.
These new believers, they get excited.
They get involved and they discover the imperfections that exist within the church.
I didn't say that there might be.
There are imperfections that exist in the church.
There has been since 1950 when those four doors opened for the very first time and there is imperfections that exist at this moment today.
I can tell you, I'm one of them.
Because I'm not Him.
I'm gonna make mistakes and I'm gonna do things wrong and I'm gonna preach and you're not gonna like the style or this or that or what I'm wearing or the color of my shoes or whatever it is.
And they get wrapped up and then they see the imperfections of the church and they get discouraged and they either sit back there and we call that pew warming.
Never to be involved anymore.
Or they simply do what many do.
And they just leave.
I'm going to the other church.
They love Jesus.
There's more Holy Spirit there.
Only to find six months to a year down the road, all of the little imperfections that exist in that church.
Do you know what we have?
We have a name for that too.
You know what we call it?
Church hopping.
Church hopping is not healthy.
So what do we do?
We pray.
In our time together today,
I want us to see what Scripture emphasizes for our families.
The need to instill healthy church members membership into our family's DNA.
Just because something is difficult, just because we disagree with this, that or the other thing doesn't mean we abandon the situation.
It means that we learn to work through it.
We grow and the other person grows or the other situation grows or we take and we jump in and we say, hey, listen,
I see a weakness in this place.
I'm going to begin number one as we're going to talk for the most part today to pray about that situation.
And I'm going to lay it at the foot of the one who can create a solution out of nothing.
But I'm going to learn to work through it and I'm going to teach my family how to work through and be a healthy church member.
Like I said, we've already discussed our responsibility to serve within the church, to check our preferences as we talked a couple of weeks ago, and to check those that our desires at the door, and to pray as we talked last week, to pray for our leadership.
Again, not just me, I pray for Pastor Don, I pray for Pastor Paul, our area.
kind of presubator.
I pray for Pastor Bob Foley, our sectional presubator.
I pray for those people that God has placed in my leadership.
And this week, again, our message is I will lead my family to be a healthy church member or healthy church members.
We're gonna look at, see what it means to lead our families to worship, to love, to pray for, and to serve our church together.
So I'm gonna give you a question.
That's kind of has been our habit through this particular series.
What are some hindrances that prevent families from being more involved?
So we're going to answer a couple of questions.
So what is the connection to the church and the family?
If you're a note taker, this is not point one.
This is actually sub point A of my introduction.
So I just don't want you to get confused.
If we look in Ephesians 5 and 6, Paul writes and he compares the family within the church.
So we're going to do a little bit of reading.
We're going to start at chapter 5, verse 22, and we're going to go to chapter 6, verse 4.
It's not a ton, but you're going to have to hold on and hold with me, if you will.
Ephesians 5 and verse 22 through chapter 6 and verse 4.
For wives, this means submit to your husband as to the Lord.
For a husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church.
He is the savior of his body, the church.
As the church submits to Christ, so you wives should submit to your husbands in everything.
We men like that verse, don't we?
We like to quote that a lot.
We like to make...
Let's keep going though, shall we?
Verse 25, for husbands, this means love your wives just as Christ loved the church.
He gave up his life for her.
To love your wife as the church means you give up everything else.
Wants, desires, hopes, dreams,
He gave up his life for her to make her holy and clean, washed by the cleansing of God's word.
He did this to present her to himself as a glorious church without spot.
or wrinkle, or any other blemish.
Instead, she will be holy and without fault.
In the same way, husbands ought to love their wives as they love their own bodies, for a man who loves his wife actually shows love for himself.
No one hates his own body, but feeds and cares for it, just as Christ cares for the church.
And we are members of his body.
As scriptures say, a man leaves his father and mother and is joined to his wife and two are united.
into one.
This is a great mystery but it is an illustration of the way Christ and the church are one.
So again I say each man must love his wife as he loves himself and the wife must respect her husband on to chapter 6.
Children now obey your parents because you belong to the Lord for this is the right thing to do.
honor your father and mother, this is the first commandment with a promise.
If you honor your father and mother, things will go well for you and you will have a long life on earth.
Fathers do not provoke your children to anger by the way you treat them, rather bring them up with the discipline and instruction that comes from the Lord.
We see a direct connection from scripture to the family
and to church, in the way that we operate, the way that we act.
So how does this, this, if you will, how does this text describe the relationship of our immediate families and the church?
Rainer has a passage, and again, we are loosely basing some of our content off of the book called I Am a Church Member by Tom Rainer.
He is considered a church expert, but of course, we are using scripture to
be our base and just supporting from some of the things that he has shared.
He says this, he says, these passages remind us that just as we are supposed to sacrifice and love our families unconditionally, so are we to love those churches where God has placed us.
Our family members are not perfect and neither are the members of our church.
We are to find our joy in serving both our families and the church.
We are further reminded of the importance of the
of the family to the church, we are to encourage our family members to be faithful to the church, and we should pray together as a family, as family members for our churches.
Indeed, as we are to strive to love our families more deeply, so we should exhort our family members to love the church more deeply.
We are the body of Christ.
For whatever reason, for His purpose and His glory alone,
We have been brought together to this place at this location for this season.
And so this is what I want us to spend the rest of our time today looking at.
And as we look at this, I want us to consider the responsibility to lead our families to be biblical church members.
And we're gonna look at three ways that we can do that.
Now let me stop here and insert a little caveat, if you will.
When we say lead, we're not only talking about the men, dads, fathers, husbands.
For some families, the head of the house is mom for whatever reason.
And there is no judgment or prejudice on that.
It is just the reality of what it is.
In my family growing up, my head of house was my grandma.
And she did everything that she could to fill the role of spiritual leader because that's what was thrust upon her by the virtue of the circumstances that happened in life.
So if you are a single mom, you are worthy of honor still.
If you're a single grandparent or if you're a grandparent raising grandchildren, there's honor in that.
But take your responsibility
to lead your family well, not just in knowing God's Word, which is the most important, but in being an active part of the body of Christ.
We take in His Word and we act out in our local church the results of that knowledge.
First thing that we wanna look at is that being a church member, being someone who leads our family well means that we pray together as a family for the church.
We pray together as a family for the church.
Let me tell you something, I stopped short a moment ago.
As in my house, yes, my grandmother, when I was small,
was the head of the house and was the spiritual leader.
But there was a point where it shifted.
And frankly, and my grandmother would admit this and has admitted this, so I'm not saying anything behind her back.
It shifted and I became the spiritual leader.
It's just the way things worked.
Students that are sitting in this room, you may in fact be the one that has to champion in your home.
Hey, we need to pray.
Hey, we haven't done Bible study yet.
Because guess what?
Mom and Dad, they get busy.
They don't intentionally forget to pray.
They don't intentionally not want to do Bible study with you generally.
If they're a believer, we all wish we had.
Life gets in the way sometimes.
And you may need to step up and say, hey, I'm going to take the spiritual leadership for a season until our family gets back on track.
I'm gonna lead our family in praying together.
I'm gonna lead our family in praying for the church.
So last week, when we talked about being a church that prays together, and then today we talk about praying together as a family for the church, we looked at the fact last week that there was an urgent need to pray for our church leaders.
They're under physical, spiritual, and mental strain all the time.
And as church members, as part of the body of Christ,
We have a responsibility to pray for them regularly.
But have you ever considered praying for your church and its leaders together as a family?
When you gather together and pray, do you remember to pray for Brea Temple?
Do you remember to pray for me?
Do you remember to pray for Pastor Don?
Or for Pastor Jonathan who, if you have students at home and he's there, they're leading your students.
Again, Rainer gives us some several specific areas where us as families can pray for our church leaders.
And I, I didn't put these up just because it's just a quick list and I think you'll understand most of them.
But to pray for spiritual protection, for protection from moral failure, for preaching of the word, for their families, for encouragement,
for physical strength, for courage, discernment, and for wisdom in their leadership.
But here are some more specific ways that you can pray.
If you've listened to me pray very much, you'll notice these are some things that I pray.
Pray for the gospel to change lives.
Lord, help bury a temple to go beyond the four walls of our church.
Help us every week in prayer meeting on Wednesday night.
One of the prayer points that we pray for is the lost.
Pray for the gospel to change lives.
Pray for unity in our body, the body of Christ here at Berea Temple.
Pray for an impact in our community.
We want to be a lighthouse, a beacon.
That should be something that should be fairly familiar from my verbiage to you.
Pray for a heart for the lost, for sound doctrine.
How do we say this on a regular basis?
As good students of God's word.
Sound doctrine.
Not being tossed to and fro scripture says, why every thing that sounds good, not by every TV preacher that's on TV that really frankly just wants you to send a little money in.
Pray for specific ministries.
If you have students, sixth grade to 12th grade, pray for the youth ministry of Berea Temple.
If you have children, pray for the children's ministry of Berea Temple.
If you have young adults, pray for that ministry.
And then pray for our scheduled worship time.
Most every Sunday, I wish I could say it was 100%, but again, life gets in the way sometimes.
Most every Sunday I am in here well before anybody gets to the building.
And I pray over every pew.
And I pray for every family because we're creatures of habit and most of you sit in about the same place every Sunday.
And I anoint with oil every pew that you sit in.
Because I believe that prayer changes things.
I believe that prayer affects how we worship.
And so pray for that.
Pray for our scheduled times to worship.
There are a few things in this world that will cultivate a love for the church and its leaders within your family more than praying for them.
You want your children to respect the office.
I'm not talking about me, Mike Gonzales, the office of pastor, shepherd.
Teach your children to pray for that person.
I don't care who's standing in the sea.
I don't care who your political affiliation is.
I hope that yesterday you prayed for the former president and the current president for their safety.
I don't care whether you like them or not.
Pray for the office and what God has placed over us as a people group.
It might feel awkward.
It might feel uncomfortable.
It may feel weird.
but it can often prove to be one of the most beneficial ways to keep your family involved in the life of the church.
Rainer writes that in part, that part of the opportunity and honor of being a church member is the teaching of our family to love the church.
And that teaching often begins by praying together as a family for the church where God has placed us.
Again, we're not talking about now.
We talked about praying for me, I guess, in my family and Pastor Jonathan last week.
Today we're talking about the office of pastor.
We're talking about the office of Deacon, of elder, of whatever place teacher, Sunday school, prayer partner, whatever it may be, praying for the office of, whomever sits in that seat.
So again, we end each point with a couple of questions.
Do you pray regularly with your family specifically for the church and its leaders?
And if not, what practical steps can you take to begin doing this?
Pray together.
You want to see a affected change in your family?
Number two that we're going to look at in leading our family to be biblical, godly, healthy church members is that being a church member means we worship together as a family.
Another way to lead our families is to be healthy church members is that we worship like this, like you are sitting here.
Rainer has a quote in this particular area.
It says, as a church member, I am responsible for encouraging and leading my entire family to worship together in the church.
If I'm married, I seek to include my spouse.
If I'm a parent, I seek to include my children.
My family must see my love for the church.
Many church members are single.
They have no immediate family with whom they can worship in the church.
Regardless, if there are still people watching, regardless, there are still people watching them and how they love the church.
They are to be an example to others.
I can tell you again, my grandmother loves the Lord to this day.
I spoke to her yesterday.
She is a God-fearing, Bible-believing, praying woman.
But growing up, she worked 18 hours a day.
That's not an exaggeration.
She worked 18 of 24 hours a day just to keep food on the table and a roof over our heads.
We very often missed church together.
She would take me Sunday mornings and then I would get a ride to church with a church member, whomever, somebody, usually the rikers, the people I've told you before, kind of like my other set of parents,
And I would get a ride to church on Sunday night, which is where I told you the story that I would fall asleep in the front row.
That was on a Sunday night.
And I would go to Royal Rangers if you're familiar with that on Wednesday night and she would have to work.
Here's what I can tell you.
Yes, this is a Rainer quote, but I as a living example can get a test to this.
Because the people that I saw was not my grandma and how she worshiped.
I got to see that at home.
Thank the Lord.
But it was the other people sitting in the pews next to us, just like you.
Every once in a while, there's some little ones that sit in the adult service with us.
Don't think they're not watching you, even though you're not their direct family member.
Do you sit in the pew during times?
have your hands raised when we're supposed to have our hands raised?
Are we standing up when we're standing supposed to be standing up?
Are we just sitting?
Whatever it may be, there are eyes on you.
Every person in this room, there are eyes.
And we are an example to the little ones, to the students,
You think our 16-ish, 17-year-olds who are just about to become adults aren't watching and going, OK, when I become an adult, who am I going to be like?
I'm not picking on you guys up in the balcony.
We have three young men that sit in the balcony who see all of you from the back and how you worship.
You think that's not an influence on them?
I'm not digging on anybody.
I think most of us worship great.
But we are, regardless, no matter good, bad, or otherwise.
We are an example of how to worship to our children, on how to pray, on how to act in church, how to be a healthy church member.
Matter of fact, the writer of Hebrews emphasizes the need for believers to assemble together in worship.
And this is what he says, Hebrews chapter 10 verses 19 to 25.
It says, and so, dear brothers and sisters, we can
boldly enter heaven's most holy place because of the blood of Jesus.
By his death, Jesus opened a new and life-giving way through the curtain into the most holy place.
And since we have a great high priest who rules over God's house, let us go right into the presence of God with sincere hearts
fully trusting Him, for our guilty consciences have been sprinkled with Christ's blood to make us clean, and our bodies have been washed with pure water.
Let us hold tightly
without wavering to the hope we affirm, for God can be trusted to keep His promise.
Let us think of ways to motivate one another to acts of love and good works, and let us not neglect our meeting together, as some people do, but encourage one another, especially now that the day of His return is drawing near.
A passage that was written 2000 years ago, and he's going especially because it's getting close,
We're 2,000 years down the road.
It's getting closer.
If you don't believe that, I'm not sure why we're here today.
The day of the Lord is drawing close.
We worship together.
We come together as a body of believers because Christ has opened up direct access to the Father.
And we come together and we link arms.
It doesn't matter our tagline for every tribe, every nation, every tongue.
It doesn't matter where we come from.
It only matters where we're going.
Amen.
See the writer challenged the believers to spur on one another toward love and good deeds, not giving up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing, encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day approaching.
I want to stop and I want to look at that for a moment, to spur one another on or to press on to good deed.
Why would that be said?
Remember when we said new people see and they get kind of disenfranchised because of the imperfections?
If everybody was already doing what they were supposed to be doing, there would be no need for the passage to encourage one another, especially now, to press
each other on to good deeds means there was probably some not good deeds happening.
We can infer what we call in between the lines a little bit.
We can infer that there is something that is being unsaid that is said in another way.
So just like us, just like the church down the street, so I'm not digging on our church.
Just like the church over here, just like reached church and florist and assembly and every other church, there are some not good deeds.
And so rather than abandon our church and go, spur one another on, encourage one another to do what is right.
We as families should strive to worship together as often as possible, both corporately and privately.
I hope you're worshiping privately together.
So again, questions at the end of point two.
What hinders your family from worshiping together?
What steps can you take to emphasize to your family the importance of attendance and participation in weekly worship services?
We all have people in our lives that aren't believers.
And maybe your family in particular, maybe your husband, maybe your wife may not be a believer.
My grandma, when I was first going, when I went to live with her and we first got saved, my grand, her husband, my grandfather was not a believer and would not go to church with us.
And ultimately,
is part of what led to their ultimate divorce.
But if you go, if you're a believer, attend church and pray for your spouse.
See, worshiping together as a family is important.
It takes some time to listen.
It takes time to understand.
I want you to listen to a poem for just a moment.
And it's written in a poetic way, so you're gonna have to kind of listen and process what's being said.
But hear this.
I believe I've got it, yeah.
This is called If You Want to Kill a Church.
Never go to your church or meetings held there.
If you do go, be late.
It's no one's affair.
If the weather is bad, either too hot or snowing, just stay home and rest for there'll be others going.
But should you attend, be sure and remember to find fault with the work each official and member.
Be sure to hold back on your offerings and ties, the bills will be paid by the rest of the guys, and never take office if offered the post, but eagerly criticize work of the host.
If not on committee, you're placed, be sore.
If you find that you are, don't attend anymore.
When asked your opinion on this thing or that, have nothing to say, just turn them down flat.
Then after this, after the meeting, shine out like the sun by telling the folks how it should have been done.
Don't do any more than you possibly can.
Leave the work for some other woman or man.
And when you see faithful ones work themselves sick, then stand up and holler.
It's run by a click.
Have you ever been in a church like that?
You wanna kill a church.
There's a good guideline for you.
There's a good road map.
Number three, love for your church as a church member to teach our families to be healthy church members.
We need to love the church and encourage our family to do the same.
You ever heard somebody say this and this gets me.
I love Jesus.
I just don't like going to church.
It's full of a bunch of hypocrites.
That would be the same thing as somebody coming to you and telling you, they love you, but they hate your spouse.
The two become one.
The Bible doesn't give us an option of loving Jesus and not loving the church.
If we love Jesus, we will love his church.
Rainer is quoted this in his book.
As a church member, I am not merely to like my church or to serve my church.
Well, I am to fall deeply in love with my church.
Christ is the bridegroom and the church is his bride.
My commitment is to love that bride with an unwavering and unconditional love.
Unconditional love is not always easy.
If someone is perfect and meets our every perceived need, it is easy to think we love that person.
But such love is one way and it's all about me and my needs.
Unconditional love means I will continue to fall more deeply in love regardless of the response.
It means my love for the church will grow even as I may disagree with something or encounter disagreeable people.
So do you love your church?
How do you think it's such a challenge to give unconditional love in particular as it pertains to the church?
For most of us, and I would dare say probably close to all of us, we are only able to love our church unconditionally when we understand that Jesus loves
us unconditionally.
Jesus loves us unconditionally.
We love His bride unconditionally.
Paul described Christ's love for us in Romans 5.8.
We use this in soul-winning.
But God showed His great love for us by sending Christ to die for us while we were still sinners.
He said, I know in 2000 years from now, you are going to be born and you are going to be a sinner.
But I love you enough that I'm going to send my son and I'm going to die on the cross.
And I'm going to give my life up for you.
Lord, I'm grateful because I know the life that I was planned for and it was not this.
We have an opportunity to love God and to love his bride and to teach our children to love his bride.
We were separated, enemies, if you will, yet Christ died for us.
Jesus loved his church so much that he willingly laid down his life to redeemer out of her sin.
How was Christ's death on the cross an example for us?
as church members to relate to one another.
We're gonna have differences.
I've told you this, when I first got here, I'm gonna repeat it now.
If I haven't already, I'm going to make you mad.
I'm sorry.
Never intentional.
I'm human.
We're gonna disagree on methods, practices, ideologies, backgrounds,
Processes the who, the when, the where, the how, the why.
But we both love the same person.
We both love the bride of Christ and we're trying to do everything that we can to lift her up and to present her to the city of St. Louis as a beautiful ornament so that the rest of the world will say, I want that.
We may have different ways of doing it, but we love the bride of Christ.
We are all part of the body.
And as we come to just this closing part of the sermon before we move into the next part, Tom has given us a pledge at the end of each of these sections.
And I ask you to repeat the first one and I've just read the rest of them to you as a placeholder, something to consider within you.
Is this something that you could say as being a healthy church member?
He says,
I am a church member.
This is the pledge.
I will lead my family to be good church members of this church as well.
We will pray together for our church.
We will worship together in our church and we will serve together in our church.
And we will ask Christ to help us fall deeper in love with this church because he gave his life for her.
So as we close, as we wrap up, I want us to reflect a little bit on this responsibility that we have.
As church members, as a part of the body of Christ, we have a responsibility to lead our families in loving, serving, and praying for the church.
If you can't do that,
And again, I realize that some of my statements have been a little bit rough.
But if you can't do that, then this might not be the place for you.
I'm not asking anybody to leave and I'm not expecting that anybody would leave.
But if you're love for the body, the bride of Christ at the corner of Compton and Russell,
If you find yourself in a place where you can't love that or serve there or even find an opportunity to pray for it, then there may be a need to join with another body.
Because we have to remember that the health and the strength of our church, it doesn't sit on my shoulders, friends.
It starts at home.
It starts in the home.
It starts with mom or dad with the spiritual head of the house, leading and leading well.
So I want to implore us to be diligent in our efforts to foster a love for the church within our families.
That may be
We'll say an ideal situation, a father leading mom and the children.
Or it may be mom leading the children and I'm hopefully dad.
It may be husband leading wife, it may be wife leading husband.
To be passionate for the body, for being part of the body.
As has been our practice, we're going to end our time.
We're going to end our response in communion.
In unity as a body, ending each of these discussions, each of these times of exhortation out of God's word, in an act of unity together as a body.
By going to the table and taking the body and the blood of Christ, who gave himself for this church,
We need to remember his giving was a sacred act.
It was an act of unconditional love and sacrifice for his church, not Mike Gonzalez's church, not board members church, not Pastor Byerly who founded the church,
but His church.
Communion is a time for us to unite our hearts in remembrance of Jesus' sacrifice and to reaffirm our commitment to His body, His blood, His church.
So as has been our practice, we are going to take communion today in, again, a little bit different way.
And here's what I'm gonna ask.
I'm not asking for a lot of debate over ideology, but we're gonna work from front to back.
And I'm gonna ask the head of house.
Whoever that is, if that's dad, great.
If it's mom, great.
If it's a student, great.
If mom and dad aren't in here, the eldest or whomever.
And I'm gonna ask you to come forward one row at a time and take a bread tray and a cup tray.
And I want you to go back and I want you to serve your family.
Bring it back to the table and then the next head of house.
This may take a little longer than normal, but that's okay.
We have time today on purpose.
Because I want a symbolic act of the head of house
serving the family.
If you're here alone, if it's just you, that's okay.
Come up, take communion here at the table, and then go sit back down.
But just at row by row, one by one, until everybody has been served.
So Father, we take this moment.
And as a body of believers at this place for this moment,
God, I pray that your spirit would continue to bind us in your love.
May we find unity in your body, in your bride.
May we find a connection for the church and our family.
We praise you and we thank you as we take the bread that is your body.
and we drink of the cup that is your new covenant.
We rejoice that you have opened the curtain for access into your throne.
It is in the name of Jesus that we pray.
Amen.
And amen, if you'll start at the front row on each side and just slowly work your back, the head of the house or whomever is here to come and take back to your individual families.
I just want to speak.
you